In the other demos we showed malware that needed the user
to run a malicious file in order to be active.
But worms work differently.
In this demo, we're showing how some types of malware
like worms
can spread on their own
across a network
without the user clicking anything or opening any program.
The malware starts by scanning the network.
It looks for active devices
checks which ones are reachable
and then tests for open ports.
When it finds a device with weak or default credentials
the worm sends its malicious code automatically.
No user action is needed
Now we can see that the worm
successfully delivered the payload
but nothing shows up on the victim device
This is an important point
Some malware can enter your device quietly
and stay hidden until it is triggered
The trigger could be a specific action
a certain time, or another condition set by the attacker
In our simulation, the trigger is simple
The malware activates when the user restarts their device.